# 1. Introduction
## 1. Introduction

In our age, there are many technological developments both hardware and software. These developments are seen in areas such as printing, communication, industry, computers, optics, transportation, security and health. The main purpose of technological developments is to make life easier for people and to raise living standarts. In particular, developments in the field of health, combined with developments in the field of engineering, help to implement sensitive operations and treatments that are difficult for healthcare professionals to practice. Robotic surgeries, robotic nurses are some examples of this situation. With a sensor to be attached to our body, data can be taken regularly from our organs and senses. As a result of these data it is possible to perform appropriate treatments according to the data and the patient’s life can be saved by sending a call to the authorized center in case of seizures. In some cases, patients may expreince limb losses.  In these cases, robotic devices are produced to perform the movement and the perception functions of the limb lost. These devices that mimic the shape and function of the limb are called “proshetic”. Proshetics are named according to the names of the limbs where they are used. Leg prosthetics, hand prosthetics, arm prosthetics are some examples of this situation.
The first known prosthesis in the history of the world was found on the toe of an Egyptian mummy between 950-710 BC. In 1858, an implanted leg of 300 BC was found in Italy and it was found that this prosthesis was made of iron and bronze and covered with wood. In the Middle Ages (476-1000), prostheses were designed to allow warriors to complete their missing limbs with instruments such as shields (Finch, 2011). Apart from the war, only the rich ones used the prostheses in daily life. In the Renaissance (1400-1800), the prostheses were made of iron, steel, copper and wood. The prosthesis was redesigned based on the medical discoveries of the Greeks and Romans. In 1508, the German soldier Gotz von Berlichingen had an iron prosthesis supported by springs instead of his right arm, which he lost during the Bavarian War. During the same period, Barbaros Hayreddin Pasha lost one arm while fighting the Spaniards in Algeria and began using a silver arm prosthesis. In 1529, the French army surgeon Ambroise Paré introduced limb surgery procedures to the medical community, and in 1536 developed prostheses for high and low grade losses. He also developed a uniaxial prosthetic limb that allows movement of the knee joint. This study was recorded as a preliminary study showing that prostheses may have axis of motion. In 1800, James Potts developed a prosthesis whose leg was made of wood, the joint was steel, and could be moved by the Achilles tendon. When this prosthesis was used, it became known as les “Anglesey Leg” and “Selpho Leg”. In 1843, Sir James Syme developed a foot prosthesis that did not wrap the upper leg (Bisol, 2018).
A skeleton was found during excavations in Northern Italy in April 2018. The right arm of this skeleton, thought to belong to a warrior living in the Middle Ages, was replaced by a knife as a prosthesis. At the point where the prosthesis is attached to the body, abrasions have occurred in the bone and differentiation has occurred in the mouth structure since it holds the prosthesis with a rope attached to the tooth. This skeleton, estimated to be around 40-50 years old, was found to belong to the Longobards, a warrior community.
These examples from the past to the present day prove the importance of using the correct prosthesis as a remedy for the difficulties caused by the loss of limb in human life. Nowadays, the newly discovered metals, newly produced alloys, plastics, sensors and developing software technology with amputation prostheses are very advanced. Carbon fiber and similar easy-to-process, lightweight, strong alloys that are prone to damping physical effects can produce durable and lightweight prostheses. In this way, prosthesis users do not have to apply extra force during use. In addition, these developments increase the similarity of the prosthesis to the real human limbs, which prevents the patients from avoiding the prosthesis.
As a result of changing prosthesis structures, prostheses have become prone to integration with electronic circuits. For example; myoelectronic arm prostheses receive signals from the muscles that continue to contract after the amputation via electrodes and convert the signals into motion using motor and battery (Uellendahl, 2017). Although Myoelectronic prostheses are sufficient for the users in daily life, technological studies are continuing to increase the functions of the prostheses. Technological studies about prostheses have enabled the development of robotic prostheses after myoelectronic prostheses.
Robots can personalize prosthesis treatments according to the motor abilities of the people. The biosensors detect the impulses from the nerves and transmit them to the control point in the prosthesis. After the transmission, they perform the limb function by stimulating the necessary motors of the prosthesis and transforming the nerve impulses into motion in the prosthesis. For another detection mode, signals from the brain can be used instead of bioelectronic sensors.
Prostheses, whose prices increase with their advanced technological advantages, can now be manufactured in low cost and personalized. A prosthesis that can hold thousands of pounds through three-dimensional printers can be obtained at lower costs (Blough, Hubbard, McFarland, Smith ve Gambel, 2010). Three-dimensional printers are used to make three-dimensional production. They print the objects they divide into floors using plastic, ceramic, metal, dust and even living cells. This process is also called additive manufacturing or rapid prototyping. Although some three-dimensional printers are similar to conventional ink printers, the difference is due to three-dimensional printing (Lee Ventola, 2014).
The differences in the products in the three-dimensional printing process emerge through speed, quality and materials used. In this way, printers can print most shapes we can imagine and can be drawn with computer-aided design (CAD). In a simple installation, the printers take instructions from the CAD file and the hotend, which can move with two axes (x-y axes), starts to create the product. In the ongoing period, the hotend moves to the third axis (z axis) and gives the object a third dimension and height.
The human hand has a complex structure. The hand consists of 34 muscle sets. With the independent contraction of 5 fingers, it performs movements such as grip, touch (Hande, Malusare, Sawarbandhe and Darbhe, 2015). Although it is not yet possible to produce a one-to-one imitation of the hand, it is tried to produce similar ones by using various sensors and motors (Syed, Agasbal, Melligeri and Gudur, 2012). Thanks to the developed technologies and new scientific findings, mechanical designs with high similarity to human limbs can be made easier than before. Robotic hand projects called Barret Hand, DLR Hand I, Gifu Hand and Blackfingers are scientific and industrial projects that work on imitation of human hand. Another current example is the robotic hand developed by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology students in 2014. In addition to finger movements, this developed hand is able to obtain data on the objects it touches by means of sensors located at three fingertips. This allows the robotic hand to recognize objects (Bos, 2018).
The aim of this project is to develop a robotic hand, which is based on the instant movement of the human hand, in order to contribute to prosthetic technologies in the light of the data obtained and within the reachable possibilities. In this context, the necessary researches have been made and the previous studies have been reached. Help was taken from the examples of projects open to social sharing. As a result, this robotic hand project, which can perform the movements of the human hand, has emerged.

# 1.1 Aim
In the project of “Design Of A Self-Learning Prosthetic Hand Using Wireless Data Transmission And Flex Sensor”, it is aimed to develop a prosthetic hand that can transmit the data received from the glove with flex sensor wirelessly and by memorizing the desired movement.
